Common potato based foods and food products include french fries, potato chips, and potato flour.

This article tells you everything you need to know about potatoes.

Nutrition Facts
Cooked potatoes with skin are a good source of many vitamins and minerals, such as potassium and vitamin C.

Aside from being high in water when fresh, potatoes are primarily composed of carbs and contain moderate amounts of protein and fiber  but almost no fat.

The nutrients found in 2/3 cup (100 grams) of boiled potatoes  cooked with the skin but without salt — are (1Trusted Source):

Calories: 87
Water: 77%
Protein: 1.9 grams
Carbs: 20.1 grams
Sugar: 0.9 grams
Fiber: 1.8 grams
Fat: 0.1 grams
Carbs
Potatoes are mainly composed of carbs, primarily in the form of starch. The carb content ranges from 66–90% of dry weight (2, 3, 4).

Simple sugars such as sucrose, glucose, and fructose  are also present in small amounts (5).

Potatoes usually rank high on the glycemic index (GI), making them unsuitable for people with diabetes. The GI measures how foods affect your rise in blood sugar after a meal.

However, some potatoes may be in the medium range  depending on the variety and cooking methods (6Trusted Source, 7Trusted Source).

Cooling potatoes after cooking may lessen their effect on blood sugar and lower their GI by 25 26 (8Trusted Source, 9).

Fibers
Even though potatoes are not a high fiber food, they may provide a significant source of fiber for those who eat them regularly.

The level of fiber is highest in the skin, which makes up 1–2 of the potato. In fact, dried skins are about 50% fiber (10Trusted Source).

Potato fibers such as pectin, cellulose, and hemicellulose — are mainly insoluble (11Trusted Source).

They also contain varying amounts of resistant starch, a type of fiber that feeds the friendly bacteria in your gut and improves digestive health (12Trusted Source).

Resistant starch can also improve blood sugar control, moderating your rise in blood sugar after meals (13).

Compared to hot potatoes, cooled ones offer higher amounts of resistant starch (8Trusted Source).

Protein
Potatoes are low in protein, ranging from 1–1.5 when fresh and 8 9 by dry weight (10Trusted Source, 14).

In fact, compared to other common food crops  such as wheat, rice, and corn  potatoes have the lowest amount of protein.

However, the protein quality of potatoes is very high for a plant  higher than that of soybeans and other legumes (10Trusted Source).

The main protein in potatoes is called patatin, which may cause allergic reactions in some people (15Trusted Source).
